Spring is here!
Now, instead of building snow forts and licking
icicles, we can skateboard and ride our bikes,
and we don’t have to worry about Squeaks
getting rusty in the snow.
[Squeaks squeaks]
Speaking of seasons—you know we have four
of them: Spring, summer, autumn, and winter.
But do you know why we have more than one
season?
Well, we have seasons because the Earth is
tilted. Instead of standing straight up and
down, it leans a little bit.
Whoa! How’d that happen?
A really, really long time ago—billions
of years ago—scientists think something
big hit the Earth. The impact was so strong
that it knocked our planet over a little bit.
So now Earth is tilted.
And our tilted planet travels around the sun,
completing one full trip all the way around
every year.
I mean, that’s what a year is -- the time
it takes for the Earth to go around the sun
once.
And depending on where the Earth is in its
journey around the sun, our exposure to sunlight
changes.
That means the seasons change. That’s why
we have four seasons in one year.
Sometimes during the year, part of the Earth
tilts toward the sun. Sometimes it tilts away
from the sun.
When the part of the planet you’re on is
tilted toward toward the sun, it’s—you
guessed it!—summer. When it’s tilted away
from the sun, it’s—yup!—winter.
And when it's in between, well, the weather's
pretty much in between too. That’s when
we have spring and autumn. They’re both
a little bit warm, and a little bit cool,
and often windy!
But if the season also depends on where on
the Earth you happen to live, that means that
not everyone experiences the same season as
the same time.
It can be summer in some parts of the world
when it’s winter in others. Because those
different parts of the planet are getting
different amounts of sunlight.
When the Northern hemisphere is tilted toward
the sun and it’s summertime, the Southern
hemisphere, is tilted away, so it’s wintertime
there.
So the tilty-ness of our planet explains a
lot.
It’s why we have seasons, and why it’s
not always winter or always summer all of
the time. And it also helps us understand
why different parts of the world can experience
different seasons at the same time.
Thanks for watching, guys. Enjoy your season,
whatever it happens to be! See you next time.